% Multi-threaded Computation Performance

\figw{fpspeed_barchart}{8.5}{Percentage of CPU performance
slowdown for the floating-point computation compared to the
bare-metal performance. The x-axis is the IDs for the
benchmark programs of SPEC CPU 2017. \textbf{VANILLA}:
unmodified guest. \textbf{603}: explosion modeling.
\textbf{607}: relativity. \textbf{619}: fluid dynamics.
\textbf{621}: weather forecasting. \textbf{627}: atmosphere
modeling. \textbf{628}: wide-scale ocean modeling.
\textbf{638}: image manipulation. \textbf{644}: molecular
dynamics. \textbf{649}: electromagnetic. \textbf{654}:
regional ocean modeling.} 

\figw{parsec_barchart}{8.5}{Percentage of CPU performance
slowdown compared to the bare-metal performance when running
the PARSEC benchmark programs. \textbf{VANILLA}: unmodified
guest.}

\figw{intrate_barchart}{8.5}{Percentage of CPU performance
slowdown for the integer computation compared to the
bare-metal performance. The x-axis is the IDs for the
benchmark programs of SPEC CPU 2017. \textbf{VANILLA}:
unmodified guest. \textbf{500}: perl scripts. \textbf{502}:
GCC. \textbf{505}: route planning. \textbf{520}: OMNeT
simulation. \textbf{523}: XML conversion. \textbf{525}: video
compression. \textbf{531}: chess. \textbf{541}: GO.
\textbf{548}: sudoku. \textbf{57}: data compression.} 
